So how is the size calculated?
Let's have a look at that
for the different units we have. The first category would be absolute lengths. What happens right here is
that these absolute lengths mostly ignore user settings.
Well what do I mean by that?
Well if we apply pixels for example, we saw that in the example on our website on the customer page
with the font size of 20 pixels.
If I do that and our user changes the default font size, well then the font size on the website won't
change because the user settings as it's written right here are ignored.
So we specify a pixel and that's it,
the user cannot change it.
Yes you can change it by zooming in with the browser but we learn that this is probably not the behavior
that we want. In addition to this pixel as an absolute length,
we also have centimeters, millimeters and more
but these are not units you should use in web development because centimeters and millimeters,
these are units you use if you have something on paper because on paper, one centimeter is one centimeter,
on a display, one centimeter definitely is not equal to one centimeter, so using these units
in the end will just lead to a total mess.
So we should avoid these,
we won't use these,
therefore I just wanted to show you that these units are also existing
but we will stick to pixels when it comes to absolute lengths.
With that we finished the first category of units,
now what's the second category?
Well the second category are viewport lengths. Viewport lengths, as the name says actually, adjust the
size of the element we apply to
according to the viewport, the viewport lengths can be applied with the vh value,
so viewport height but also with viewport
width, I showed you that already
and we have more, we have vmin and vmax, we'll have a look at that
once we understood vh and vw but generally, these lengths allow us to adjust our size more dynamically
to the viewport.
You'll learn what the viewport is, basically the visible part of our website in the browser.
So that's the second category,
viewport lengths, then we have a third one, font relative lengths. As the name says, font relative lengths
adjust to the default font size
and if you remember back what I said in the beginning, then this rem with my bad rem joke,
this is the unit that allows you to do that.
I also told you that we have em and that there is an important difference,
we'll find out more about this difference
and we also have more units available that are just sort of font size
but as you can see, I didn't even mention them because rem and em are really the units you have to know
when it comes to font relative lengths.
And with that, there is only one category left and this category is a category we already know, the percentages,
we applied these a lot already on our website.
But the interesting thing is that, although we apply the percentages, we didn't understand how it works
in detail and more importantly, it's even a special case.
Now why is the percentage value a special case?
Well because we have to answer the question, how this box size is actually calculated if we use the percentage
unit to calculate the box size
because the situation normally is the following,
you have a div,
this can have a padding and a border, like here and this div is normally nested into another div.
This could be the body element, this could be another parent element,
anything like that.
Well and now the question is of course, this box size right here as a percentage value
and this box width right here, also as a percentage,
well what is this height and this width referring to?
So if I add a width of 80%, what is this 80%?
Is it 80% of the parent,
80% of the body element, of the HTML element or of anything else we don't know so far?
This is exactly the problem we have to take a closer look right now and for that, we have to understand
the so-called containing.